Bpipe Version 0.9.9.5
===============

## Summary

This release has a variety of new features with highlights being more flexible
options to limit concurrency based on memory usage, and support for integration
with message queuing systems (JMS) to both run pipelines remotely and also to
send outbound messages. 

A range of important bug fixes are included as well. One minor behavior change may 
be observed for pipelines using the `$threads` variable: this variable will now
only cause dynamic thread allocation if the `procs` config for that command is
either unset or is set to zero. The old behavior caused dynamic allocation of threads when
this value was set to 1, which was counterintuitive and confusing.

## Features

 - Bpipe now supports an 'agent' that can run in the background on a system 
   and accept remote instructions to run pipelines on your behalf. For now, 
   Bpipe listens to requests via JMS (activemq for now) to run pipelines, but
   this will be expanded in the future.
   
 - Improved support for the 'send' command to:
  - Sending json to JMS/ActiveMQ queues
  - Send (POST) json or other content to HTTP(s) URLs 
   
 - Utilitity function 'asQuotedList' formats lists of inputs
   as syntax compatible with js,python,groovy scripts 
   
 - Experimental support for "sequential" or power operator 

 - Print out the outputs to be created when run in test mode, 
   in addition to the command to run (existing behavior)
   
 - Support for check review states. Previously, checks were were either
   passed, failed or overridden. Now when a check fails it enters 'pending
   review' state, and becomes failed only when manually failed after review.

 - Jobs are now automatically throttled based on memory if a memory 
   limit is set using `-m` flag or `limit { memory="<n>g" }` in bpipe.config.
   For this to activate, you must define a "memory" config parameter for
   commands.  An inline / magic memory variable can now be used to reference the 
   amount of memory specified in bpipe.config for a command. Returns memory in GB.
   eg: `exec "java -Xmx${memory}g SomeCommand"`

 - Support for `memoryMargin` command config so that memory variable returns
   less memory than allocated to a job (to allow for memory overhead)
 
 - Add `maxFileNameLength` config parameter that will cause Bpipe to ensure file names
   do not exceed this length for file systems supporting limited file name length

 - Support for loading BED files as genomic regions to parallelize over,
   using built in `bed` command, eg: 
   
   `bed('test.bed', allowBreaks:false, padding: 20).split(10) * [ foo ]`

 - Add support for config for `groovy` command

 - Check clauses can now omit the `otherwise` clause. Such checks are 
   executed after a stage exits.

 - Change: dynamic thread allocation is now invoked when procs=0 
   OR unspecified, not procs=1 

 - Preliminary support for jobs in queued / waiting state to be reallocated
   if a pre-allocated job becomes available

## Minor Changes

 - Support for post-command hook to execute a script after every 
   command 
   
 - Add command start and stop time to output from 'bpipe query' 
   
 - Add start and stop time to display in 'bpipe errors' 
   
 - You can now specify java libraries as list in bpipe.config,
   in addition to the existing string form
   
 - Add many more details to output shown by `bpipe errors`


## Fixes

 - Fix possible failure of `cleanup` to identify files as eligible due to incorrectly
   thinking they are pre-existing files

 - Fix `output.dir` set differently in consecutive stages sometimes nesting directories
   instead of creating at top level

 - Fix `bpipe test` generating a pipeline result, causing it to show up in `bpipe stats` and
   other commands

 - Fix 'bpipe errors' failing if non-xml files in .bpipe/results 

 - Fix 'bpipe errors' also showing log file tail                 

 - Fix ranged values not working in proc configuration    

 - Fix dynamic threads not used through if procs unset 

 - Fix stack traces having double groovy extension in file name

 - Fix segments not correctly represented in json graph output

 - Fix exception/error if double input extension overlaps 
   input extension overlaps 
   output with sng ext, eg. $input.foo.bar  happens to match
   upstream $output.foo
   
 - Fix completed event sometimes not sent for failed stages 
   
 - Fix failed checks written to std out at end of run 
   
 - Fix situations where checks are re-executed when not 
   required 
   
 - Support supplying input files explicitly to run in 
   run([...])
   
 - Support for JMS notifications of pipeline events
   
 - Fix error displayed by 'bpipe log' if no pipeline has ever 
   been executed in dir 
   
 - Prevent recursive load caused defining a segment inside a 
   loaded file
 
 - Add segment structure to JSON pipeline representation
   Previously segments were expanded into their constituent stages 
   in the JSON representation, and thus the higher level pipeline
   structure was lost.  Now each node and edge in the group
   is given a type, and both the segment and its intenral
   structure are output as nodes / edges.  
   
 - Fix sometimes getting wrong last run pid (thinks still 
   running) 
   
 - Change to make error in loaded script terminate pipeline 
   instead of just printing error and continuing
   
 - Fix bpipe log stops working after some commands until bpipe run 
   again 
   
 - Avoid printing out cleanup message if zero files to cleanup
   
 - Move some of the docs out of Language and into Guides 

 - Prevent exception in bpipe errors if command state not saved 

 - Fix 'bpipe errors' not showing log output if hyphen in branch 
   
 - Fix status command, add regression test 
   
 - Groovy command in script now handles embedded quotes,
   which previously caused syntax errors
   
 - Fix error when nested segment made of single stage defined 
   

